The President: Hi, everybody.
The right to vote is one of
the most fundamental rights
of any democracy.
Yet for too long, too many
of our fellow citizens were
denied that right, simply
because of the color of
their skin.
Fifty years ago this week,
President Lyndon Johnson
signed a law to change that.
The Voting Rights Act broke
down legal barriers that
stood between millions of
African Americans and their
constitutional right
to cast ballot.
It was, and still is, one of
the greatest victories in
our country's struggle
for civil rights.
But it didn't
happen overnight.
Countless men and women
marched and organized, sat
in and stood up, for
our most basic rights.
For this they were called
agitators and un-American,
they were jailed and beaten.
Some were even killed.
But in the end, they
reaffirmed the idea at the
very heart of America: that
people who love this country
can change it.
Our country is a better
place because of all those
heroes did for us.
But as one of those heroes,
Congressman John Lewis,
reminded us in Selma this
past March, "There's still
work to be done."
Fifty years after the Voting
Rights Act, there are still
too many barriers to vote,
and too many people trying
to erect new ones.
We've seen laws that roll
back early voting, force
people to jump through hoops
to cast a ballot, or lead to
legitimate voters being
improperly purged
from the rolls.
Over the years, we have seen
provisions specifically
designed to make it harder
for some of our fellow
citizens to vote.
In a democracy like ours,
with a history like ours,
that's a disgrace.
That's why, as we celebrate
the 50th Anniversary of the
Voting Rights Act, I'm
calling on Congress to pass
new legislation to make sure
every American has equal
access to the polls.
It's why I support the
organizers getting folks
registered in
their communities.
And it's why, no matter
what party you support, my
message to every American is
simple: get out there and
vote - not just every four
years, but every chance you get.
Because your elected
officials will only heed
your voice if you
make your voice heard.
The promise that all of us
are created equal is written
into our founding documents
- but it's up to us to make
that promise real.
Together, let's do what
Americans have always done:
let's keep marching forward,
keep perfecting our union,
and keep building a better
country for our kids.
Thanks everybody.
Have a great weekend.